look I want to ask you this I'm you know
I'm happy to hear you talk to you but
let you know I think the other thing
that's different from you and other
people is that you haven't fallen into
the abolitionist trap but which I mean
like I use the word abolitionist myself
sometimes but not all the time but I
think a lot of people would refuse to do
the kind of research you're doing just
because they say oh well the point is to
abolish it like end of story so it's
simple so we don't have to think about
it right like you know and it's like
well instead of just jumping to
abolition as if that solves the problem
or answers all the questions you're kind
of just saying well let's ask the
questions let's actually figure out
things work you know I it's just it's
just very different from the
abolitionists own of so much of what's
going on veganism I think that's another
frustrating fact you is just like um a
lot of I've gotten a lot of attacks
lately from different youtubers and
different just like different people
that watch v in YouTube that are
attacking me for not being I think we've
talked about this before about not being
aggressive enough and you know I've been
called a shill a couple times this week
you'll be happy to know we're both on
Team chill great yeah yeah we're Team
chill now because of the interviews that
I've been doing apparently that means
I'm I'm trying to speak favorably about
animal slaughter I don't know I really
don't but yeah I've been outright
attacked in my comment section a lot and
um mostly by other vegans of course of
course because I'm not an abolitionist
it's not that I don't want to do away
with animal slaughter of course I do but
don't think it's realistic to ask the
world to change overnight I don't think
it'll happen in my lifetime but you see
that's right that's exactly the problem
that's exactly the problem with the word
abolitionist is that it becomes
meaningless like I don't think it's
meaningful to say that you are not an
abolitionist or that I am NOT an
abolitionist we would both ideally like
to see things abolished we would just
also like to speak in a realistic manner
but what we're doing next week
in the next six months in the next five
years next ten years we don't see
abolition as an excuse to not do
research to not do political
organization or do not do real activism
you don't I mean and that's really what
it becomes like when abolition becomes
an excuse for pious ignorance for not
knowing things not caring with things
that's what makes it counterproductive
but I don't like I don't assume
someone's an idiot if they tell me
they're an abolitionist they may be a
real they may be a great person there
may be a great vegan activist but it's
just like the term has is not useful and
again if people are actually attacking
you by saying you're not Nepalese you're
not abolitionists enough like what
because you would dare to listen to
somebody like you would dare to let the
other person speak like is that the
problem is that you should be screaming
at the farm owner so that you can't hear
his side of the story like if that's
what evolutionism means that I'm against
abolitionism but it's not it's not what
the word means it's just a kind of
social habit that's gotten attached to
it like I would love you know with with
elephants elephants were part of my life
in Southeast Asia but like if you want
to know anything about elephants you've
got to talk to the people who are
exploiting them and the exploitation is
gruesome like apart from being vegan
like people break down weeping and vomit
when they see what people do to help it
I when you describe but some of the
things are really like in terms of the
amount of blood and stuff are really
gross but if you don't want to be an
ignorant self righteous [ __ ] if you
actually want to do effective advocacy
or activism or fundraising run a charity
or you want to run an animal of elephant
rescue center those are the people you
need to talk to and those are the people
who've lived with elephants and normally
you know if you if you talk to them in a
human way maybe some of them are evil
psychopaths but most of them will have a
whole range of emotions because they'll
have had you know positive emotional
connections to some elephants and the
other hand there will be some elephants
they will have literally beaten to death
or something you know and you can get
all that all those gray areas and at the
end of that process you can be an
effective activist and you're not an
ignorant self-righteous prick but sure
but you're hanging easiest in the world
do you want to do you want to abolish
zoos yes do you want to Balash circuses
yes do you want to abolish exploitation
of elephants yes so therefore there's
nothing more to talk about right come on
you know come on
yeah and I think of it also fits in with
that that attitude to of like you know
like you just like the self-righteous
vegan um there's there's a lot of
judgment being passed in the vegan
community right so I'm not I'm just not
aggressive enough or whatever so that
judgment is holding a lot of people back
from doing a lot of good I think vegans
need to stop judging other vegans and
saying you're not vegan enough because
it's just not helpful that's the goal
this doing real good but that's that's
that to me is also very Canadian thing I
mean obviously it's going to be
different in different cultures you know
like the British pissed me off I don't
in general I have bigger even worse
problems with English culture but to me
like everything I saw on the left wing
in Canada and of course like the Green
Party was dominated by left-wing people
also so much of the emphasis was on this
idea of personal purity and were like
almost all your energy went into trying
to exclude people from sitting at the
same table as you and I mean literally a
table like it's not a metaphorical table
it's like who actually gets to come to
this luncheon or who actually gets to
attend this political meeting where all
of the renergie was in like are you a
real socialist or what have you and me
and one other guy who were in the Green
Party and doing a collage activism at
that time I was strictly vegetarian I
really didn't even know the word vegan
or if I'd maybe heard it but he liked it
but anyway I was I was like ninety
percent vegan back then but I was strict
vegetarian I was involved with ecology
and stuff and we were the only two guys
who would openly say like I am NOT a
socialist I'm not a communist at those
fans and you know right i mean my friend
the other guy i never got that extreme
reaction partly just as i seem very
self-confident like I seem like I have
the answers to questions so people sighs
don't ask me questions because they
don't want to hear the answer but he he
just had a little bit less of that or
about I mean he was at one meeting like
that where he said that I'd add the same
experience but were people like really
just gasped and said well what are you
like what else is there
it was so totally assumed to them that
like either you're a socialist or you're
the enemy you know they had never even
thought about you know what else out
there or why it matters but I don't know
so yeah I just say that's I think that's
especially a problem in canada with in
veganism I mean look you know so many
games being played you know you're
you're not moral enough you're not
you're not anarchist enough because
there's a lot of anarchist influence and
veganism but there's also you're not
pretty enough you're not thin enough
you're not you know it's the life stuff
so we got a whole range right and you
know like I don't even feel insulted
when people say I'm not intellectual
enough I'm like damn straight like at
least you hate me for a reason if you
think I'm too stupid good because that's
better than saying I'm fat you know if
the problem is I can't be an activist
because I'm fat that's not a
conversation I have it that's cuz I'm
not done a video intellectual or I'm
stupid that's okay now you know you're
excluding me for a reason I can
sympathize with you know great you know